---
layout: post
title: Big Idea 5.6 Safe Computing
toc: true
categories: [APCSP Week 20]
---

1. Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles.

PII stand for personal identifiable information, some projects that I have witness PII is when we are showing code and use our email and name for example. Sometimes for the code we will go a little more explicit by giving the date of birth of even the school we are currently at. However those are not to personal compared to other things on the list, like your social security number.

2. What are your feelings about PII and your personal exposure?

I feel that PII is something that you shouldn't share with just anyone. Even people you trust the most shouldn't know the deepest parts of your PII. For example, I am not going to give my best friend my social security number and birth certificate because they have known me for a while, its just not how it works. Those are things me and me only should know and have possession of.

3. Describe good and bad passwords? What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.

Bad passwords are ones that involve simple sequences like 123, or have your name within the password. An example of a bad password would be like Andrew123. Good passwords are usually ones with symbols and have deep meaning or little correlation to you in ways. An example could be like BFNsK]gadtL9R/]j, however the better the password, the harder it will probably be to remember. There is two factor authentification where it an app will send and email and then you clicking on it and putting a password will follow.


4. Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.

Symmetric encryption uses a single key to encrypt and decrypt. encrypting a zip file and decrypting it with the same key is symmetric encryption. Asymmetric encryption allows users to encrypt information using shared keys. It uses a mathematically related pair of keys for encryption and decryption: a public key and a private key. if one is used for the encryption the other is used for the decryption and vice versa.

5. Provide an example of encryption we used in AWS deployment.

AWS utilizes hardware security modules (HSMs) to protect customer key material while in use. 

6. Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.

Phishing is where unknown sources try to entice you into a response, like click here for $1000. They usually try to impersonate big companies so that they can catch you off guard. One that I have learned the hard way was when I was very little and wanted something free online. I remember clicking it and then a virus attached to my computer. I also remember my dad installing a anti-virus for my computer, but I believe it was the reason my computer was always running so slow. Other phishing techniques could be when you want to pay and they ask for more personal information than they need. 