---
layout: post
title: Big Idea 5.4 Crowdsourcing
toc: true
categories: [APCSP Week 20]
---
1. We have all experienced Crowdsourcing by using external data through API’s, namely RapidAPI. This data has influenced how we code and shown possibilities in obtaining and analyzing data. Discuss APIs you have used.

- I used a BasketballAPI for my last project with a bunch of data about basketball players
- Some other people used an API that gives you words for hangman
- Another person used an NBA API that gave random NBA players with their stats


2. We have all participated in code Crowdsourcing by using GitHub. Many of you have forked from the Teacher repository, or exchanged code with fellow students. Not only can we analyze GitHub code, but we can obtain profiles and history about the persons coding history. What is the biggest discovery you have found in GitHub?

- The biggest discovery that I found in Github is that I am able to clone repositories and work on the same repository as a group. I also was blown away with the way I can create issues and use that as a form of submitting weekly checks


3. Kaggle datasets for code and science exploration. The avenue of data points us youtube or netflix channels. Analyzing crowd data helps us make decisions. Exam top 10 to 20. Did you see anything interesting?

- I noticed that all the trending sets are very unique and different from one another, however some of them do connect in ways. For example there is a good amount pertaining to social media like Youtube, bots of Social Media, ChatGPT Reddit, etc

# Hacks
1. CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?

A crowdsource idea for a group of 150 computer science students could be a project collaboration platform where students can come together to work on projects and share their skills and knowledge with each other. In order to do so, we could regularly check in with the teams to provide feedback and offer any assistance they may need.

2. What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better with crowdsourcing?

I believe that our project could benefit heavily in Del Norte with crowdsourcing. If we shared and collaborated with other groups on the information that we have, their would be a lot of resources that everyone in our class and un and our school that would know and have access to all these perks. 

3. What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.

Some data that we could get from the N@TM is some coding that has to deal with a pretty advanced feature, as that would do really well in terms of the CPT Project that we are doing.